Feature/relay (#64)
0xPolygonHermez/zkevm-data-streamer: README.md

# zkEVM DataStreamer

Go implementation of a generic fast data streamer library. 

**Use case for the zkEVM Node**: Sequencer data stream service to stream L2 blocks and L2 txs.

![zkEVM DataSreamer diagram](doc/data-streamer.png)

## GENERAL DIAGRAM
Description of the diagram elements:

> - **Sequencer**: uses the data streamer library through the API to send L2 blocks and L2 transactions to stream. It's a use case of the datastreamer component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Sequencer**: uses the data streamer library through the API to send L2 blocks and L2 transactions to the stream. It's an use case of the datastreamer component.
```

- **Streamer Client**: creates a stream client, it manages the data streamer connection and allows to execute the TCP commands available in the server.

## STREAM FILE
The binary file format is described below.

### Header page
- The first page is the header. 
- Header page size = 4096 bytes

#### Magic numbers
At the beginning of the file there are the following magic bytes (file signature): `polygonDATSTREAM`

#### HEADER ENTRY format (HeaderEntry struct)
>u8 packetType = 1 // 1:Header  
>u32 headerLength = 29 // Total length of header entry  
>u64 streamType // 1:Sequencer  
>u64 TotalLength // Total bytes used in the file  
>u64 TotalEntries // Total number of data entries  

### Data page
- From the second page starts the data pages.  
- Page size = 1 MB

#### DATA ENTRY format (FileEntry struct)
>u8 packetType // 2:Data entry, 0:Padding  
>u32 Length // Total length of data entry (17 bytes + length(data))  
>u32 Type // 0xb0:Bookmark, 1:Event1, 2:Event2,...  
>u64 Number // Entry number (sequential starting with 0)  
>u8[] data  

> NOTE: If an entry do not fits in the remaining page space, the entry will be stored in the next page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If an entry does not fit in the remaining page space, the entry will be stored in the next page.
```

### File diagram
![Alt](doc/data-streamer-bin-file.drawio.png)

## STREAM TCP COMMANDS
- All the commands available for the stream clients return first a response, a `Result` entry defined in a later section.
- Some commands like `Start` or `Header` may return more data.

Below is the detail of the available commands:

### Start 
Syncs from the entry number (`fromEntryNumber`) and starts receiving data streaming from that entry. 

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 1  
>u64 streamType // 1:Sequencer  
>u64 fromEntryNumber  

If already started terminates the connection.

### StartBookmark
Syncs from the bookmark (`fromBookmark`) and starts receiving data streaming from the entry pointed by that bookmark.

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 4  
>u64 streamType // 1:Sequencer  
>u32 bookmarkLength // Length of fromBookmark  
>u8[] fromBookmark  

If already started terminates the connection.

### Stop
Stops the reception of the streaming transmission.

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 2  
>u64 streamType // 1:Sequencer  

If not started terminates the connection.

### Header 

> Gets the current stream file header (`HeaderEntry` format defined in the [STREAM FILE](#stream-file) section), so stream client can know the total number of entries and the size of the stream file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gets the current stream file header (`HeaderEntry` format defined in the [STREAM FILE](#stream-file) section), so stream clients can know the total number of entries and the size of the stream file.
```

Command format sent by the client:
>u64 command = 3  
>u64 streamType // 1:Sequencer  

If streaming already started terminates the connection.

### RESULT FORMAT (ResultEntry struct)
Remember that all these TCP commands firstly return a response in the following detailed format:
>u8 packetType // 0xff:Result  
>u32 length // Total length of the entry  
>u32 errorNum // Error code (0:OK)  
>u8[] errorStr

## BOOKMARKS
Bookmarks make possible to the clients to sync the streaming from a business logic point.
- No need to store the latest `stream entry number` received.
- Using the API, bookmarks to business logic data are added in the send data to stream implementation.

> - e.g. zkEVM Sequencer streaming: each L2 block number has its own bookmark. Client can request to start the stream from a L2 block number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- e.g. zkEVM Sequencer streaming: each L2 block number has its own bookmark. Clients can request to start the stream from a L2 block number.
```
